hi just a quick one today because I've
got a lot of other stuff going on right
now more on that later hopefully this is
a follow-up to the previous video about
avoiding negative side effects making
the dooblydoo so watch that first if you
haven't yet I wanted to talk about
another possible problem you might have
with low impact or impact regularizing
agents one I forgot to mention in the
last video some people definitely
mention some things close to this in the
comments if you've got this good job
feel free to brag about it the problem I
want to talk about is avoiding positive
side effects so before we talked about
how most side effects are negative
rather than having to figure out how to
avoid negative side effects maybe it's a
more tractable problem to just avoid all
side effects but if you look at the side
effects of for example getting me a cup
of tea that includes effects like me
being happy or me not being thirsty or
me feeling more awake because I've had
some caffeine in other words every
reason I wanted a cup of tea in the
first place if the robot can think of a
way of getting me a cup of tea that
still results in me being thirsty and
tired just as though I hadn't had a cup
of tea it will prefer that option now I
can't off the top of my head think of
any way to do that assuming we've
defined what a cup of tea as well enough
so maybe the robot will conclude that
these positive side effects are
unavoidable just like how using up a tea
bag is an unavoidable side effect but
it's not great that it's looking for
ways to negate the benefits of its work
and again the more intelligent assistant
becomes the more it's going to be able
to figure out ways to do that
or how about this we set up our system
to try to keep their outcomes close to
what it predicts would happen if the
robot just sat there and did nothing at
all right what actually would happen if
it just sat there and did nothing
instead of getting me a cup of tea one
thing is I would probably become
confused and maybe annoyed and I would
try to debug it and figure out why it
wasn't working so our robot may want to
try and find a course of action such
that it does get me a cup of tea but
still leaves me confused and annoyed and
try to debug it and figure out why it's
not working because that would have been
the outcome of the safe policy how do we
deal with that issue and all of this is
assuming that we can come up with an
impact metric or a distance metric
between world states that properly
captures our intuitions there are a
whole bunch of difficulties there but
that
look for another video so that's it for
now next time I think we'll keep talking
about the paper concrete problems in AI
safety and look at some other approaches
to avoiding negative side effects so be
sure to click on the bell if you want to
be notified when that comes out oh and
if you think this stuff is interesting
and you're at a place in your life where
you're thinking about your career the
careers advice organization $80,000 has
just put up a really good guide to
careers and AI safety I'll put a link to
that in the description as well highly
recommended checking that out especially
if you don't think your technical enough
to directly work on the research there
are a lot of different ways you might
want to get involved oh and let me know
in the comments if you'd like me to make
some videos about AI safety careers you
know if that's something you'd want to
see and to end the video quick thank you
to my patreon supporters that's all of
these excellent people right here I
especially want to thank Yonatan are
represented here by this sock his choice
not mine
anyway thank you so much for your
support I hope to have some more behind
the scenes stuff going up on patreon
this weekend if I can I hope you like it